--- Page 1 ---
9 Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E  
  
 
 
 
CITATION  TO ACCOMPANY THE  AWARD OF  
THE  MERITORIOUS  SERVICE  MEDAL  
TO 
 
NELSON  P. HARRIS  
MASTER  CHIEF  GUNNER’S MATE  
UNITED  STATES  COAST  GUARD  
 
Master  Chief  Petty  Officer  HARRIS  is cited  for meritorious  service  in the performance  of duty  as Command  Master  
Chief  and Armory  and Ammunition  Supervisor,  Coast  Guard  Atlantic  Area  from  March  2002  to June  2006.  His 
aggressive  leadership,  comprehensive  knowledge  of munitions  regulations,  and organizational  skills  were  critical  in planning  
and executing  a massive  short -notice  effort  to provide  over  21 tons  of  ammunition   for  ten  patrol   boats   assigned   to 
support  Operation  IRAQI  FREEDOM.  Skillfully  overcoming  every  obstacle,  his foresight  and  extraordinary   efforts  
ensured  that the cutters,  sent on the Coast  Guard’s  first combat  deployment  since  Vietnam,  had the ammunition  they 
needed  upon  arrival  to the combat  theater  of operations.  The Chief  of  Naval   Operations   recognized   his  plan  as 
essential  to solving  ammunition  distribution  issues.  He spearheaded  a massive  distribution  of additional  weapons  and 
ammunition  throughout  Atlantic  Area.  Expertly  managing  a complex  web of requirements,  he led the six Area  Armories  in 
the distribution  of 6,150  new small  arms  and 28.6 million  rounds  of ammunition.  His efforts  directly  contributed  to the 
success  and safety  of the inter -agency  rescue  teams.  Master  Chief  Petty  Officer  HARRIS’  dedication  and devotion  to duty  
are most heartily commended and are in keepingwith  the highest  traditions  of the United  States  Coast  Guard  

--- Page 2 ---
10Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E CITATION  TO ACCOMPANY THE  AWARD OF  
THE MERITORIOUS  SERVICE  MEDAL  
(GOLD STAR IN LIEU  OF A SECOND)  
TO 
COMMANDER  MARILYN  P. STREET  
UNITED  STATES  COAST  GUARD  
Commander  STREET  is cited  for meritorious  service  in the performance  of duty  as  Commanding   Officer,  
Communication  Area  Master  Station  Pacific,  Point  Reyes,  California,  from  November  2004 to June  2007. Demonstrating  
superior  leadership,  vision, and technical  expertise,  she modernized  and sustained  a broad  range  of  communications  
services  critical  to Coast  Guard -wide  operations.  Her personal  initiative  and innovation  were  the catalysts  for the 
development  and fielding  of several  ground -breaking  new capabilities,  including  new contingency  communications.  These  
new communications  capabilities  significantly  enhanced  the Coast Guard  response  during  the San Diego  wildfires,  the 
grounding  of the motor  vessel  SELENDANG  AYU,  Hurricane  KATRINA,  and Hurricane  RITA.  Furthermore,  these  
capabilities  have  become  the blueprint  for Coast Guard -wide  implementation.  Her decisive  actions  allowed  a  myriad  of 
new tactical  communications  capabilities  to be fielded across the fleet,  including  access  to  the  Department  of  Defense  
Secret  Internet  Protocol  Network.  Commander  STREET’s  dedication  and devotion  to duty  are most   heartily  
commended  and are in keeping  with the highest  traditions  of the United  States Coast Guard.  

--- Page 3 ---
11Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E CITATION  TO ACCOMPANY THE  AWARD OF  
THE  AIR MEDAL  
TO 
LEWIS  D. BLACKWELL  
AVIATION  SURVIVAL  TECHNICIAN  SECOND  CLASS  
UNITED  STATES  COAST  GUARD  
Petty  Officer  BLACKWELL  is cited  for meritorious  achievement  in aerial   flight   on  27  August   2005   while   serving   as 
rescue  swimmer  aboard  Coast  Guard  helicopter,  CG-6574.  The helicopter  launched  at 0200  to assist  the fishing  vessel  
NATURE,  which  was floundering  in 45-knot  winds  and 15-foot seas,  35 miles  southwest  of Naples,  Florida.  Once  over 
the NATURE,  he quickly  prepared  for deployment  when  the panicked  fishermen  abandoned  their  vessel.  Entering  the 
pitch  black  water,  he swam  for the struggling  men who were  quickly  being  separated  by the pounding  waves.   Taking  
the first man  in tow, he labored to reach  the second  man as waves  continuously  crashed  over their  heads.  Seeing  the 
helicopter  overhead  being  buffeted  by the severe  gusts,  he wrestled  the first survivor  into the rescue  basket  and held on to 
prevent  it from  swinging  wildly  as it left the water.  Just then,  the wave  dropped  away,  leaving   him  dangling   ten  feet  in 
the air. Releasing  his grip,  he crashed  onto his back  into the  waves.   Undaunted,  he quickly  swam  to the second  
survivor,  freeing  him from  lines  that were  entangling  his neck  and torso. Petty  Officer  BLACKWELL’s  actions  and skill 
were  instrumental  in the rescue  of two lives.  His courage,  judgment,  and devotion  to duty  are most  heartily  commended  
and are in keeping with the highest  traditions of the United States Coast Guard.  

--- Page 4 ---
12Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E CITATION  TO ACCOMPANY THE  AWARD OF  
THE  AIR MEDAL  
TO 
RYAN P. PHILLIPS  
AVIATION  SURVIVAL  TECHNICIAN  SECOND  CLASS  
UNITED  STATES  COAST  GUARD  
Petty  Officer  PHILLIPS  is cited  for meritorious  achievement  in aerial  flight  while  serving  as Rescue  Swimmer  aboard  
Coast  Guard  helicopter  CG-6517  on 31 December  2005.  Arriving  on scene,  the crew  of CG-6517  spotted  a  partially  
submerged  vehicle  and its hapless  driver  floundering  in rapidly -running,  neck - deep  water.   As  the  flight   mechanic  
lowered  him into the water,  Petty  Officer  PHILLIPS  immediately  began to  struggle  against the torrential  current.  
Finally  able to grasp  the weakened  survivor,  he simultaneously  rigged  the quick  strop,  while  fighting  off floating  debris  
and holding  the victim's  head  above  water.  As the hoist  cable  came  taught,  he immediately  noticed  that the victim  was 
hopelessly  entangled  beneath  the muddy,  swirling  river.  Using  his knife,  and with only seconds  to spare,  he frantically  sliced  
at the obscured  entanglements  while  he continued  to struggle  against  the current  and rising  water.  Finally  cut free,  he and 
the exhausted  driver  were  quickly  hoisted  into the helicopter.  His courage,  judgment,  and devotion  to duty  are most  
heartily commended and are in keeping  with the highest traditions of  the United  States  Coast Guard.  

--- Page 5 ---
13Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E CITATION TO ACCOMPANY THE  AWARD OF 
THE  COAST  GUARD  COMMENDATION  MEDAL  
TO 
ANGEL  I. NAJOLE  
CHIEF  AVIATION  MAINTENANCE  TECHNICIAN  
UNITED  STATES  COAST  GUARD  
Chief  Petty  Officer  NAJOLE  is cited  for outstanding  achievement  while  serving  as Flight  Mechanic  aboard  Coast  Guard  
helicopter,  CG-6041,  on the afternoon  of 24 June  2004,  CG-6041  was dispatched  from  Air Station  Elizabeth  City to the 
position  of a distress  call received,  ANDALU,  which  was located  300 nautical  miles  southeast  of Elizabeth  City.  Upon  
arriving  on scene,  the crew  of CG-6041,  unable  to see the vessel  due to the tossing  seas,  rain squalls,  and low ceilings,  was 
vectored  into position  by an overhead  C-130 aircraft.  Chief  Petty  Officer  NAJOLE  worked  diligently  to ready  the cabin  
for rescue  operations  while  maintaining  critical  awareness  of the aircraft’s  position  and altitude.  Applying  precise  timing,  he 
skillfully  lowered  the rescue  swimmer  between  the violently  pitching  waves  into the roiling  seas for each  of the 
extraordinarily  demanding  hoists,  as the safety  pilot  assisted  him by calling  out altitude  and wave  intervals.  Low on fuel 
and unable  to return  to Elizabeth  City due to strong  head  winds,  he assisted  with the care of the survivors  during  the 
long and treacherous  transit  330 nautical  miles  east to Bermuda.  His swift  actions  and precise  aeronautical  skill were  
instrumental  in the saving  of three  lives.  Chief  Petty Officer  NAJOLE’s  dedication,  judgment,  and devotion  to duty  are most  
heartily  commended  and are in keeping  with the highest  traditions  of the United  States  Coast  Guard.  
The Operational  Distinguishing  Device  is authorized.  

--- Page 6 ---
14Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E CITATION  TO ACCOMPANY THE  AWARD OF  
THE COAST GUARD COMMENDATION MEDAL  
TO 
CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER JOHN  N. CHANCE  
UNITED  STATES  COAST  GUARD  RESERVE  
Chief  Warrant  Officer  CHANCE  is cited  for outstanding  achievement  while  serving  as Training  Liaison  Officer  and 
Engineering  Training  Team  Senior  Assessor  at the U.S. Navy  Afloat  Training  Group  Pacific  Northwest,  Everett,  
Washington,  from November  2003 to December  2007. He led four rigorous  Command  Assessments  of Readiness  and 
Training  and four Engineering  Limited  Team  Training  evolutions  for six different  classes  of Coast  Guard  cutters.  On four 
occasions  when  not enough  active  duty  trainers  were  available,  he rearranged  his civilian  employment  schedule  on minimal  
notice  in order  to sail with cutters  during  transits  to deliver  training  needed  to maintain  operational  readiness.  His 
steadfast  commitment  prevented  the cancellation  of required  training  and saved the Coast Guard  over $5,000 in travel 
costs.  Serving  on a joint  team  of Coast  Guard  and Navy  subject -matter  experts,  he drastically  improved  the Pacific  Area  
cutter  training  process  by developing  standardized  cutter  drill scenarios  that improved  training  fidelity,  prevented  
duplication  of effort  in the fleet,  and enabled  unit training  teams  to focus  their  efforts  on running  safer,  more  productive  
drills.  Chief  Warrant  Officer  CHANCE’s  dedication,  judgment,  and devotion  to duty  are most  heartily  commended  and 
are in keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Coast Guard.  

--- Page 7 ---
15Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E CITATION TO ACCOMPANY THE  AWARD OF 
THE COAST  GUARD  ACHIEVEMENT  MEDAL  
(SILVER STAR IN LIEU  OF A SIXTH)  
TO 
VICTOR D. BANKS  
STOREKEEPER  FIRST  CLASS  
UNITED STATES COAST  GUARD  
Petty  Officer  BANKS  is cited  for superior  performance  of duty  while  serving  on board  USCGC  SHAMAL  (WPC -13) 
from  May  2006  to May  2008.  Demonstrating  superior  technical  expertise,  Petty  Officer  BANKS  oversaw  and ethically  
managed  an average  annual  budget  of over $375,000  and orchestrated  over 1,300   purchase   requests   in  a  two-year  
period.  He was a significant  contributor  to SHAMAL’s  law enforcement  success,  qualifying  as a  Boarding   Team  
Member  within  four months  of reporting.  He assisted  in the interdiction  of over 225 illegal  migrants  and five suspected  
go-fast smuggling  vessels.  His dedication  was further  evident  in his mentoring  and training  of 15 shipmates  on inport  and 
underway  watch  qualifications.  Prior  to and throughout  SHAMAL’s  2006  Tailored  Annual  Cutter  Training,  he played  a 
key role as the cutter’s  logistics  support  coordinator,  as well as serving  as a boundaryman  and gunner  for a host of key 
Damage  Control  and Gunnery  drills  and exercises.  His efforts  constituted  to SHAMAL’s  receipt  of the highly  coveted  
Battle  “E” award  for operational  readiness.  Petty  Officer  BANKS’  diligence,  perseverance  and devotion  to duty  are most  
heartily  commended  and are in keeping  with the highest  traditions  of the United  States  Coast  Guard.  
The Operational  Distinguishing  Device  is authorized.  

--- Page 8 ---
16Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E CITATION  TO ACCOMPANY THE  AWARD OF  
THE COAST GUARD ACHIEVEMENT  MEDAL  
(GOLD STAR IN LIEU  OF A SECOND)  
TO 
LIEUTENANT  BEATRICE  B. McCLANAHAN  
UNITED  STATES  COAST  GUARD  
Lieutenant  McCLANAHAN  is cited  for superior  performance  of duty  while  serving  as  Investigation   and  Analysis  
Branch  Chief,  Seventeenth  Coast  Guard  District,  from  October  2004  to May 2007. During  her tenure,  s  he masterfully  
mediated  40 license  appeals  and congressional  inquiries.  Her achievements  focused  investigative  efforts  on vetting  critical  
safety  recommendations  that will have  positive  impacts  on fleets  nationwide.  She is further  commended  for the exceptional  
teamwork  she exhibited  during  the response  to the tragic  foundering  of the motor  vessel  SELENDANG  AYU,  which  was 
compounded  by the crash  of a Coast  Guard  rescue  helicopter  resulting  in the death  of six vessel  crewmembers.  She 
performed  flawlessly  as the Regional  Incident  Command  Situation  Unit  Leader  during  the critical  first 16 hours  of the 
crisis.  Her establishment  of the battle  rhythm,  operational  reports,  and team  communications   quickly   brought   the 
necessary  assets  to bear  on the 335,000  gallon  oil spill,  and ensured  that critical  information  flow met stringent  
demands  of the public  and  senior  leadership.   Lieutenant  McCLANAHAN’s  diligence,  perseverance,  and devotion to 
duty  are most  heartily  commended  and are in keeping  with the highest traditions of the United States Coast Guard.  

--- Page 9 ---
7 Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E CITATION  TO ACCOMPANY  THE AWARD  OF 
THE COAST GUARD MEDAL  
TO 
ROMAN  P. HEARST,  JR. 
MASTER CHIEF  BOATSWAIN’S  MATE  
UNITED STATES COAST GUARD  
Master  Chief  Petty  Officer  HEARST  is cited  for extraordinary heroism  on the evening  of 25 February  2007, while  part of a 
land  rescue  party  from  Station Humboldt  Bay engaged in the perilous  rescue  of a man swept  off the Humboldt  Bay north  
jetty.  Master  Chief  Petty  Officer  HEARST  and the other  members  of the rescue  party  ran approximately  half a mile to the 
end of the moss -covered,  partly  awash  jetty  and discovered  the victim  slipping  from consciousness  as he hung  upside  down  
twenty  feet below  the top of the jetty,  between  several  dolosse,  unusually -shaped  concrete  blocks  similar  to jacks  used  to 
protect  harbor  walls  from the force  of the sea. He and another  rescuer  carefully  traversed  down  the twenty  feet over the 
slippery  dolosse  to reach  the victim  and discovered  he had multiple  contusions,  abrasions, and a possible  leg fracture.  The 
rescuers  decided  that the only way to get the victim  to safety  was to free him from  the dolosse  and physically  carry  him to the 
top of the jetty.  While  attempting  to free the victim,  multiple  waves  exceeding  twenty  feet in height  pummeled  the rescuers  
with such  force  that the survival helmet  was yanked off his head,  and the rescuers  were  nearly  swept  away  several  times.  
After  freeing  him,  the rescuers  carried  the victim  between  them  through  breaking  waves  to the top of the jetty.  They  quickly  
determined  the victim  needed  immediate  medical  attention  and ran through  breaking  surf to the end of the jetty  where  a  
waiting  Coast  Guard  Aviation Survival Technician  began  first aid. A  helicopter  transferred  the victim  to the hospital  where  
he eventually  made  a full recovery.  Master  Chief  Petty  Officer  HEARST  demonstrated  remarkable initiative,  exceptional  
fortitude,  and daring  in spite  of immediate  personal  danger  in this rescue.  His courage and devotion to duty  are in keeping  
with the highest traditions of the United States Coast Guard.  

--- Page 10 ---
6 Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E  
  
 
CITATION TO ACCOMPANY  THE  AWARD  OF 
THE COAST GUARD  MEDAL  
TO 
 
MORGAN  F. MANN  
BOATSWAIN’S  MATE  THIRD  CLASS  
UNITED  STATES COAST  GUARD  
 
Petty  Officer  MANN  is cited  for extraordinary  heroism  on 24 March  2006  as boat crewmember  onboard  Motor  Life Boat  47210  at 
Coast  Guard  Station  Ketchikan,  Alaska,  in the rescue  of a woman  who was being  battered  at the base  of a rocky  cliff by large  waves  
during  a storm,  and desperately  clinging  to a line that had been  lowered  by a local  fire department  and was now entangled  in a rock  
outcropping  above  her.  Recognizing  that she could  not be safely  pulled  up the 50-foot rocky  cliff,  Petty  Officer  MANN  volunteered  
to deploy  from  the Motor  Life Boat  as a surface  swimmer.  He quickly  donned  the rescue  swimmer  gear and, without  hesitation  or 
concern  for his own safety,  entered  the turbulent  frigid  waters.  Battling  10- to 12-foot seas and 30-knot   winds   as  waves  
continuously  crashed  over his head,  he swam  150 feet to the woman  and immediately  placed  his body  as a physical  barrier  between  
her and the jagged  rocks.  The woman,  suffering  from  shock,  a broken  leg, profuse  bleeding  from  several  deep  lacerations,  and 
hypothermia  causing  her to drift  in and out of consciousness,  needed  immediate  evacuation  to save her life. Fighting  the cold and 
his own physical  exhaustion,  he carefully  removed  the woman  from  the fire department's  rescue  harness  and placed  her in a 
personal  floatation  device.  As he and the woman  were  pulled  150 feet through  the treacherous  seas back  to the Motor  Life Boat,  he 
struggled  to keep  the victim  afloat  and protected  her from  the crashing  waves  with his own body;  as a result,  he spent  over half of 
the return  trip submerged,  nearly  drowning  himself  and ingesting  an excessive  amount  of water  which  caused  him to vomit  
numerous  times.  Demonstrating  superlative  strength  and perseverance,  he overcame  all odds  to save the woman's  life. Petty  
Officer  MANN  demonstrated  remarkable  initiative,  exceptional  fortitude  and daring  in spite  of imminent  personal  danger.  His 
courage  and devotion  to duty  are in keeping  with the highest  traditions  of the United  States  Coast  Guard.  

--- Page 11 ---
Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E 
5  
  
 
CITATION  TO ACCOMPANY  THE AWARD  OF 
THE DISTINGUISHED FLYING CROSS  
TO 
 
NICHOLAS N. JONES  
AVIATION SURVIVAL TECHNICIAN FIRST CLASS  
UNITED STATES COAST GUARD  
 
Petty  Officer  JONES  is cited  for extraordinary  heroism  while  participating  in aerial  flight  on the day and night  of 8 May  2005  
while  rescuing  three  people  from  the sailing  vessel  AL MEISAN.  The vessel  had been  severely  damaged  and was sinking  in a 
strong  nor’easter  465 miles  northeast  of Air Station  Elizabeth  City,  North  Carolina.  Demonstrating  superior  courage  despite  
great danger, he was deployed into 30 -40 foot seas whipped  by winds  gusting in excess of 50 knots to rescue  the three imperiled  
sailors.  As he was lowered  into the raging  waters  near  the sailing  vessel,  he was nearly  struck  by the mast  and broken  rigging  
that was being  whipped  violently  in the wind.  Unable  to make  any forward  progress  against  the overwhelming  sea state  and 
currents,  he was hoisted  back  into the aircraft  and immediately  articulated  a second  plan  to execute  the rescue.  He instructed  
the flight  mechanic  to lower  him just above  the top of the waves  as he directed  the first survivor  to enter  the water  using  hand  
signals.  Once  again  in the raging  seas,  his determination  and stalwart  physical  ability  allowed  him to reach  the drifting  
survivor.  Despite  tumbling  down  the face of 40-foot breaking  waves,  he expertly  placed  the survivor  in the basket  only to find 
the hoist  cable  fouled  on the aircraft.  Exhibiting  supreme  poise  and physical  ability,  he kept the basket  upright  and above  the 
surface,  and the survivor  stable  until  the flight  mechanic  freed  the cable  and hoisted  the sailor  to safety.  He again  reassessed  
the situation,  and due to limited  fuel, opted  to rescue  the remaining  survivors  with the more  challenging  rescue  strop.  He 
accomplished  these  last two hoists  with incredible  skill and alacrity.  Petty  Officer  JONES’  actions,  skill and heroism  were  
instrumental  in the rescue  of three  people.  His courage,  judgment  and devotion  to duty  in the face of hazardous  conditions  are 
most heartily commended and are in keeping  with the highest traditions  of the United States Coast Guard.  

--- Page 12 ---
Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E 
4 CITATION  TO ACCOMPANY  THE AWARD  OF 
THE DISTINGUISHED FLYING CROSS  
TO 
KELVIN T.  COSSER  
AVIATION SURVIVAL TECHNICIAN SECOND CLASS  
UNITED STATES COAST GUARD  
Petty  Officer  COSSER  is cited  for extraordinary  heroism  while  participating  in aerial  flight  on Coast Guard  helicopter  
CG-6501 on 5 August  2007. His crew  was tasked  with flying  through  the vicious  winds  of Hurricane  ASTON  to rescue  five 
people  on the stricken  fishing  vessel  MARY  LOU  located 15 miles  from the eye of Hurricane  ASTON,  275 nautical  miles  
southwest  of Honolulu.  Demonstrating  extraordinary  foresight  and ingenuity,  he discussed  and planned  for unconventional  
hoisting  methods  with the flight  mechanic.  Additionally,  he assumed  the additional  responsibility  of monitoring  the aircraft’s  
altitude  for 300 feet and below  and continually  provided  altitude  deviations caused  by dangerous  downdrafts,  providing  a 
crucial  backup  to the pilots.  Upon  arrival on scene,  he courageously deployed  into the violent  35-foot seas,  enduring  80-knot  
winds  in the process.  While  he prepared  the first survivor  for the hoist,  the intense  wave  action  ripped  the survivor  from  his 
arms.  Fighting  through  the radical seas,  he powered  through the colossal waves  to relocate  the survivor and complete  the 
hoist. Assailed by dangerous debris, gargantuan waves,  and blinding sea spray, he heroically redeployed to the water  time and  
again and rescued  the survivors one after  another, while  enduring  with each  survivor’s aggressive  state.  Displaying  endless  
resolve,  he literally  forced  the fifth and final  survivor  into the rescue  strop  as the survivor’s fear had induced  him into a semi - 
comatose state.  Despite  the exhaustion  from  his efforts,  he rendered  critical  medical  assistance  to three  of the survivors.  Petty  
Officer  COSSER’s  skill and valor  were  instrumental  in the rescue  of five people.  His courage,  judgment,  and devotion  to duty  
in the face of hazardous  conditions  are most heartily  commended  and are in keeping  with the highest  traditions  of the United  
States Coast Guard.  

--- Page 13 ---
3 Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E 
CITATION  TO ACCOMPANY  THE AWARD  OF 
THE LEGION OF MERIT  
TO 
CAPTAIN  JULIE  A. ROBERT  
UNITED STATES NAVY  
Captain ROBERT  is cited  for outstanding  meritorious  service  as the Exercise  Director,  Coast  Guard  Atlantic  Area  and Coast 
Guard  Defense  Force  East  from July 2004  to July 2007.  During  her tenure,  Captain ROBERT  demonstrated  superb  
professional  acumen  leading  the Coast Guard’s  largest  operational  command  in examining  and evaluating the Nation’s  
preparedness  to respond  to contingencies  within  the maritime  domain.  She expertly  directed  the concept  development,  
planning,  and execution  of the first-ever Proliferation  Security  Initiative,  Exercise  CHOKEPOINT  ‘04, highlighting  
international  cooperation, information  sharing,  and coordination in the identification  and interception  of precursor  materials  
for the development  of Weapons of Mass  Destruction.  The international  partnerships  she orchestrated  will have  long-term  
benefits  to national security.  She developed  a Concept  Plan  for Maritime  Homeland  Security  and Defense  with Commander,  
United  States  Second  Fleet,  and Commander,  Coast Guard  Atlantic  Area,  facilitating  joint  collaborative  crisis  action  planning  
and operational response  to maritime  terrorist  threats.  Through  engagement  with Joint  Task  Force  Atlantic  Canada,  their  
ground  breaking  document  is an essential  element  in planning  for United  States  and Canadian  Forces  in the maritime  domain.  
Displaying exceptional leadership skills, she  was instrumental  in launching  the FRONTIER  SENTINEL  maritime  security  and 
defense  exercise  series  with the United  States  Navy, Coast Guard,  and Canadian  agencies.  These exercises  directly  impact  
operations by enhancing  the collaborative planning,  and command  and control  structures  between  these  organizations.  
Captain ROBERT’s  ability,  diligence,  and devotion to duty  are most  heartily  commended  and are in keeping  with the highest  
traditions of the United  States Coast Guard and the United States Navy.  

--- Page 14 ---
Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E 
2 CITATION TO ACCOMPANY  THE  AWARD  OF 
THE LEGION  OF MERIT  
(GOLD STAR IN LIEU  OF A  SECOND)  
TO 
CAP TAIN HARRIS  N. FORD  
UNITED  STATES COAST  GUARD  
Captain  FOR D is cited  for outstanding  meritorious  service  as Chief  of Staff,  Ninth  Coast  Guard  District  from  November  2005  to 
April  2008.  Demonstrating  exceptional  leadership  and vision,  he oversaw  the successful  execution  of more  than  10,000  incidents,  
saving  1,773  lives,  more  than  $22 million  in property  and assisting  more  than  12,000  others.  He  fostered   superb   regional  
interagency  relationships  within  the U.S. Departments  of Homeland  Security,  Justice,  and State, including  coordinating  the 
inaugural  Customs  and Border  Protection/U.S.  Coast  Guard  Great  Lakes  Security  Working  Group,  resulting  in unprecedented  
intra -departmental  cooperation  in the complex  enforcement  environment  along  the 1,500 -mile Northern  Border.  Demonstrating  
superb  foresight, he cemented  critical  partnerships  with Canadian  provincial  and national  law enforcement  entities  while  
coordinating  extensive  logistical  and fiscal  support  systems  that ensured  the success  of numerous  high-visibility,  bi-national  law 
enforcement  initiatives  including  Operations  NORTHERN  PIKE  and BORDER  PUSH.  Serving  during  a period  of dramatic  
regional  change,  he expertly  brokered  limited  resources  to ensure  readiness  for large  scale  events,  including  the 2006  Canadian/U.S.  
Lakes  preparedness  exercise,  2006  Great  Lakes  Tall Ships  tour,  and 2007  Spill  of National  Significance  exercise.  His oversight  of 
the Cleveland  Federal  Executive  Board’s  Emergency  Preparedness  Committee  significantly  improved  civil readiness  and a multi - 
agency  response  for continuity  of governmental  operations  during  disasters.  Ever  mindful  of the value  of diversity,  he selflessly  
served  as Executive  Vice President  of the Association  of Naval  Service  Officers  and was instrumental  in creating  a Cleveland -area 
Association  of Naval  Service  Officers  chapter.  Captain  FORD’s  ability,  diligence  and devotion  to duty  are most  heartily  
commended  and are in keeping  with the highest  traditions  of the United  States  Coast  Guard.  

--- Page 15 ---
Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E 
SAMPLE CITATIONS, CERTIFICATES, AND COAST GUARD RECOMMENDATION, FORM CG -1650 
CITATION  TO ACCOMPANY  THE  AWARD  OF 
THE COAST  GUARD  DISTINGUISHED  SERVICE  MEDAL  
TO 
REAR  ADMIRAL  RICHARD  R. HOUCK  
UNITED  STATES  COAST  GUARD  
Rear  Admiral  HOUCK  is cited  for exceptionally  meritorious  service  to the Government  of the United  States  in a  position  of great  
responsibility  as Commander,  Thirteenth Coast  Guard  District  from  July 2005  to August  2007.  Demonstrating  his passionate  pursuit  of 
operational  excellence,  he transformed  the readiness  and capabilities  of the Thirteenth  District  and achieved  unparalleled  success  in every  
mission  area.  He vastly  improved  the maritime  security  of the Pacific  Northwest  by perfecting  and deploying  new operating  methods  and 
procedures,  including  vertical  delivery  of security  teams  to offshore  vessels,  force  protection  tactics to secure  vital  military  outload  
operations  and high -value  Navy  assets,  plans  to detect  and defeat  small  boat  attacks,  and creation  of the nation’s  first fully  integrated  
Joint  Harbor  Operations  Center  to fuse communications,  intelligence,  and multi -agency  efforts to defend  against  all maritime  threats.  He 
oversaw  development  of a comprehensive  Canadian  engagement  plan  to foster  international  relationships  and forge  close  cross -border  
partnerships  with  the Canadian  military,  law enforcement,  and maritime  safety  communities.  He personally  directed  actions  to improve  
maritime  safety  by ordering  an overhaul  of hazardous  bar regulations,  exposing  and deterring  drug  use in the commercial  fishing  
industry,  and investigating  and prosecuting  vessel  operators  whose  reckless  behavior  endangered  the lives of their  passengers.  His impact  
was felt well beyond  the Thirteenth  District  through  selection  by the Secretary  as the Principal  Federal  Official for Puerto  Rico  and the 
United  States Virgin  Islands,  significantly  enhancing  hurricane  response  readiness  throughout  those  important  and vulnerable  islands.  
Finally,  he unfailingly  supported  Coast  Guard  personnel  and their  families,  advocating  for educational  resources,  housing  improvements  
in remote  coastal  communities,  and career  development  opportunities.  Rear  Admiral  HOUCK’s  leadership,  dedication,  and devotion  to 
duty  are most  heartily  commended  and are in keeping  with  the highest  traditions  of the United  States Coast  Guard.  
   1

--- Page 16 ---
8 Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E  
  
 
The President  of the United  States  takes  pride  in presenting  the BRONZE  STAR  MEDAL  to 
 
COMMANDER  PHIL  S. DULA  
UNITED  STATES COAST  GUARD  
for service  as set forth  in the following  
CITATION:  
For meritorious  achievement  in connection  with combat  operations  involving  conflict  with an opposing  foreign  force  as 
Director  of Training  for the Maritime  Training  Team  of the Coalition  Military  Assistance  Training  Team,  Coalition  Provisional  
Authority,  Baghdad,  Taji,  and Um Qasr,  Iraq in support  of Operation  IRAQI  FREEDOM  from  5 January  to 5 June  2005.  In an 
extremely  difficult  environment,  aggravated  by an increased  security  threat  from  Iraqi  insurgents,  facing  irregular  mortar  and 
rocket  fire, Commander  DULA  was instrumental  in returning  an effective  indigenous  Naval  Force  to the Iraqi  coastal  waterways.  
Beginning  with the manpower  from  the fragmented  remains  of a Naval  Force  hardly  changed  since  the postwar  devastation  of 1991  
and completely  disestablished  as part of the rebuilding  phase  of Operation  IRAQI  FREEDOM,  he successfully  trained  and put 
Iraqi  Naval  Officers  and Sailors  back  to the task of protecting  Iraq’s  homeland.  This Iraqi  Coastal  Defense  Force  will achieve  a 
direct  and positive  economic  impact  to commerce,  vital revenue  streams  and national  security  by the restored  ability  to control  
smuggling,  piracy,  and the terrorist  threat.  Despite  hostile  conditions  and traveling  on extremely  dangerous  water  and roadways,  
he worked  alongside  Iraqi  Nationals  and Coalition  Forces  to leverage  strategic  assets  in the region  that enabled  development  of the 
Iraqi  Coastal  Defense  Force.  Commander  DULA’s  courage  and devotion  to duty  reflect  great  credit  upon  himself  and are in 
keeping  with the highest  traditions  of the United  States  Coast  Guard.  
 
For the President,  
 
 
 
 
T. W. ALLEN  
Admiral,  United  States  Coast Guard  
Commandant  