--- Page 1 ---
23 Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E On behalf  of the Secretary  of Homeland Security,  the Commandant  takes 
great pleasure  in presenting the CERTIFICATE OF VALOR to  
NATHAN  L. JONES  
BOATSWAIN’S MATE SECOND CLASS  
UNITED STATES COAST GUARD  
for services as set forth in the following  
CITATION:  
“For heroic  action on the morning  of 22 December  2006,  during  the rescue  of 
a drowning  woman  while  off-duty  and serving  as a volunteer  responder  with a local  
fire department.  Without  regard  to his personal  safety, Petty  Officer  JONES,  in a 
courageous display  of selfless  dedication  to the preservation  of life, responded  as a 
volunteer  firefighter  to an emergency  page indicating  that a woman  had jumped  
from the Highway  17 New  Bern  High  Rise Bridge,  and was struggling  to stay afloat 
in the frigid water  below.  After  several  failed  attempts  by his fellow  rescuers  to pass 
rescue  devices  to the victim,  he volunteered  to be lowered  by rope  some  78 feet to 
the river  surface.  After  reaching  the surface,  he disconnected  from  his tending  line 
and swam  100 yard  to the victim  who was in extreme  distress  and struggling  to 
remain  afloat.  After  passing  a float  to the victim,  Petty  Officer  JONES  towed  her 
against the current  another  100 yards back  to the tending  line. The New  Bern  
Fireboat  eventually  arrived  on scene  and pulled  both  the rescuer  and victim  to 
safety.  Petty  Officer  JONES’  unselfish  actions  and valiant service  reflect  credit  
upon  himself  and are in keeping  with the highest  traditions  of humanitarian  
service.”  

--- Page 2 ---
24 Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E On behalf  of the Secretary  of Homeland Security,  the Commandant  takes 
great pleasure  in presenting the CERTIFICATE OF VALOR to  
BRANDON ROY  
for services as set forth in the following  
CITATION:  
“For heroic  action on the afternoon  of 3 July 2004,  while  assisting  in the 
rescue  of a distressed  swimmer  off the shores  of Candlewood  Lake,  New  Milford,  
Connecticut.  On that July afternoon, Mr. ROY  and several  friends  and relatives  
were  enjoying  a day of boating  adjacent to an area  that was frequented  by many  
local boaters  and swimmers.  The seemingly  uneventful  afternoon  quickly  changed  
into a frantic  situation  as he was alerted  that a distraught  swimmer  was in need  of 
assistance.  As he assessed  his surroundings,  he witnessed  his friend  diving  into the 
water  and swimming  some 30 feet from  shore.  Realizing  the urgency  of the 
situation,  he immediately  joined  the search  for the drowning  person.  Without 
regard  to his own personal  safety, he dove to the bottom of the lake on three  
separate occasions in an attempt to locate  the person. Encountering the cold, murky 
water  of the lake,  he used  his outstretched  arms to feel for the swimmer.  While  
battling  the effects of fatigue during  his final  dive, he miraculously grasped the swim  
shorts  of the unconscious  victim.  With  a limited  air supply  and the uncertainty  of 
being  able to return  to the surface,  Mr. ROY  was pushed  to unparalleled  limits  to 
complete  the rescue.  Upon  surfacing,  he swam  the patient  in the direction   of 
another rescuer  who was a trained  Emergency  Medical Technician. The Emergency  
Medical  Technician  immediately  took charge  and assisted  with evacuating the 
unresponsive  victim  to a rock  ledge  where  rescue  breathing  successfully  revived  
him.  Emergency  services  met the patient  and transported  him to Danbury  Hospital,  
where  he was able to make  a  full recovery.  Mr. ROY’s  determined  efforts,  
outstanding  initiative  and fortitude  during  this rescue  resulted  in saving  a man’s  
life. His unselfish  actions  and valiant service  reflect  credit  upon  himself  and are in 
keeping with the highest  traditions of humanitarian service.”  

--- Page 3 ---
25 Enclosure  (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E  
THE COMMANDANT OF THE UNITED STATES  COAST  GUARD 
WASHINGTON  20593 
The Commandant of the United  States  Coast  Guard  takes  pleasure  in presenting 
the COAST  GUARD  UNIT  COMMENDATION  to: 
U.S. COAST  GUARD  AIDS  TO NAVIGATION  TEAM  CHINCOTEAGUE  
CHINCOTEAGUE,  VIRGINIA  
for service  as set forth  in the following  
CITATION:  
"For exceptionally  meritorious service  from  August 2001 to February  2004 while  
executing aids to navigation maintenance  and waterways  management. During this period, 
Aids  to Navigation Team  Chinoteague distinguished itself  by demonstrating a strong  
commitment  to readiness  through preventative maintenance,  aggressive training,  and attention  
to detail.  Concentrating on efficient  planning and intense quality  control standards, the Team  
expertly serviced  its assigned  481 aids to navigation including aids marking the Virginia  Inside 
Passage,  a  waterway  prone to constant  shoaling and treacherous currents.  In the aftermath  of 
Hurricane  Isabel,  the crew  of Aids  to Navigation  Team  Chinoteague demonstrated  impressive  
surge capabilities.  Within  10 days of the storm's  passage,  the Team  surveyed their 2,000  
square mile area of responsibility  and quickly corrected  1 1 6 aid discrepancies,  ensuring safe 
passage  for commercial  and recreational  mariners.  The Team  supported Aids  to Navigation  
Teams  Crisfield  and Cape  May by removing 96 seasonal  lights and servicing  discrepancies  
when  both units were  forced  into safety  stand -downs. The Team  provided tremendous 
community support, assisting  local  watermen  in establishing  a  danger  light to protect the  
island's only water  main,  installing  new bleachers  at  the  local  high school, opening the 
Assateague  lighthouse for over 20,000 visitors,  and coordinating the Coast  Guardsman of  
Yesteryear  breakfast  events. In August of 2002, the Team  completed  intensive 50,000-dollar  
dockside availability  on their  63-foot Aids  to Navigation Boat,  which  included major  upgrades 
and renovation to various shipyard systems  including weight handling equipment, propulsion  
machinery  and electrical  systems,  saving 20,000 dollars  in contractor maintenance  costs.  The 
professionalism,  pride, and devotion to duty displayed by Aids  to Navigation  Team  
Chinoteague are in keeping with the highest traditions of the United  States  Coast  Guard." 
The Operational Distinguishing Device  is authorized. 
For the Commandant, 
JAMES  D. HULL  
Vice Admiral,  U.S. Coast  Guard  
Commander, Coast  Guard  Atlantic  Area  


--- Page 4 ---
26 
Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E THE COMMANDANT OF THE UNITED STATES COAST GUARD WASHINGTON 20593 The Commandant  of the United  States  Coast Guard  takes  pleasure  in presenting  
the COAST  GUARD  UNIT  COMMENDATION  to: 
U.S. COAST  GUARD  AIRCRAFT REPAIR  AND  SUPPLY  CENTER  
ELIZABETH CITY,  NORTH CAROLINA  
for service  set forth  in the following  
CITATION:  
"For exceptionally  meritorious  service  from  July 2004  to May  2007  as the "Center  of 
Excellence"  for aviation  engineering,  overhaul,  logistics,  and supply  activities.  During  this 
period,  the Aircraft  Repair  and Supply  Center  aviation  logistics  business  model  served  as the 
cornerstone  for the Coast Guard's  transformation  to a single  logistics  system.  Partnering  with 
the Engineering  Logistics  Center,  Aircraft  Repair  and Supply  Center  implemented  the Field  
Unit Inventory  Repositioning  Project  for all consumable  inventory.  After  conducting  a 
thorough  analysis  of baseline  demand  data,  the Center identified  $250  million  in inventory  
from  over 700 units  Coast  Guard -wide  for removal  and repositioning.  the Center's efforts  
significantly  reduced  the material  management  burden  and provided  manageable  unit-level  
inventories  that brought  Chief  Financial  Officer  audit  compliance  closer  to realization.  The 
Center  processed over  2.2 million  parts  valued  at over $89 million,  while  saving  the Coast  
Guard  nearly  20 labor  years  in administrative  processing  time.  In addition,  the Center  was 
instrumental  in establishing  the Standard  Boat  Asset  Project  Office,  providing  full exposure  
and training  on centralized  supply,  reliability  centered  maintenance,  and centralized  business  
processes.  Faced  with ever-increasing  concerns  over HH-65 engine  reliability,  the Center  
devised  and implemented  a  plan of action  to expedite  a  fleet-wide  $355  million  engine  
replacement  project,  significantly  improving  operational  capability  and aircrew  safety.  This 
project  ensured  successful  execution  of the Rotary  Wing  Air Intercept  mission  for the  National  
Capital  Region,  and made  the HH-65 a viable  platform  for the counter -drug  Airborne  Use of 
Force  mission.  Consistently  refining  processes  to maximize  capabilities,  the Center  increased  
HH-60J overhaul  production  by 80 percent,  began  an in-house  HH-60J avionics  upgrade  
project,  and implemented  a hybrid  organic  HC-130H depot -level  maintenance  program.  These  
efforts  resulted  in a combined  savings  of nearly  76.2 million  dollars  over industry  alternatives.  
The Center  displayed  unparalleled  initiative  while  simultaneously  providing  flawless  Coast  
Guard -wide  operational  support.  The professionalism,  pride,  and devotion  to duty displayed  
by the Aircraft  Repair  and Supply  Center  are in keeping  with the highest  traditions  of the 
United  States  Coast Guard."  
T. W. ALLEN  
Admiral,  U.S. Coast  Guard  
Commandant  

--- Page 5 ---
27 Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E  
THE COMMANDANT OF THE UNITED STATES  COAST  GUARD 
WASHINGTON  20593 
The Commandant of the United  States  Coast Guard takes  pleasure in presenting the 
COAST  GUARD  MERITORIOUS  UNIT  COMMENDATION  to: 
USCGC  DRUMMOND  (WPB  1 323)  
KEY  WEST,  FLORIDA  
for service  as set forth in the following  
CITATION:  
"For meritorious service  from February 2005 to December  2005 while  supporting 
operations throughout Sector  Key West.  As post-delivery casualties  hampered  the 
operation of Sector  Key West 's 123 -foot Deepwater  cutters,  the crew  of DRUMMOND  
marvelously carried  the weight  of operations in Sector  Key West's  33,000 square mile area 
of responsibility. Routinely being pulled  from needed  maintenance  periods, the crew  of 
DRUMMOND  sailed  over 1 30 days away  from homeport, not once postponing operational 
commitments due  to a shipboard casualty,  an astounding feat for a patrol boat logging  
nearly  2,300 underway hours during the period. Throughout Operation  BLUE  
HAMMER,  one of the most  successful Cuban migrant interdiction  operations executed  by 
the Coast Guard, the crew  of DRUMMOND  intercepted  1 3 migrant  vessels  attempting  to 
enter  the United  States  illegally,  including the seizure  and citation  of three migrant 
smuggling go- fast vessels  for violations  of the Florida Security  Zone. DRUMMOND'  s 
outstanding operational performance resulted  in the interdiction  of over 210 illegal  Cuban  
migrants  and the apprehension of six suspected  smugglers for transfer to Customs and 
Border Protection  officials for prosecution. Processing the 1 ,1 00 illegal  migrants that 
crossed  the cutter's  decks,  the crew of  DRUMMOND  adeptly  and professionally responded  
to a number of  extraordinary situations.  The most  notable being a precarious helicopter  
hoist medical  evacuation  of an unconscious migrant suffering from severe  head  trauma  and 
internal injuries  sustained  during a failed  go-fast smuggling attempt.  In addition  to its 
impressive  law enforcement record, DRUMMOND  was also called  upon to perform three  
precarious search  and rescue  missions,  rescuing 1 1 people and saving over one million  
dollars worth  of property. The devotion to duty and outstanding performance 
demonstrated by USCGC  DRUMMOND  are in keeping with the highest traditions of the 
United  States  Coast Guard."  
The Operational Distinguishing Device is authorized.  
For the Commandant,  
JAMES  D. HULL  
Vice  Admiral,  U.S. Coast Guard  
Commander, Coast Guard  Atlantic  Area  


--- Page 6 ---
Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E THE COMMANDANT OF THE UNITED STATES COAST GUARD WASHINGTON 20593 
28 The Commandant of the  United  States Coast  Guard takes  pleasure in presenting the 
COAST  GUARD  MERITORIOUS UNIT  COMMENDATION  to: 
USCGC  MORGENTHAU  (WHEC  722)  
ALAMEDA, CALIFORNIA  
for service  as set forth in the following  
CITATION:  
"For meritorious service  from May  2007 to July 2007 in support of the Eleventh  
Coast Guard  District  and joint Interagency Task  Force South, while  conducting counter - 
narcotic operations in the Eastern  Pacific  high threat  corridor. Demonstrating  unwavering  
commitment  to mission  execution, U.S. Coast  Guard Cutter MORGENTHAU  successfully  
interdicted  six "go- fast"  vessels,  seized  1 3,800 pounds of cocaine,  and detained  11 narcotics  
smugglers. On three separate  occasions, MORGENTHAU expeditiously  and efficiently  
employed airborne use of force to disable  drug- laden  vessels.  Exercising  vigor,  
MORGENTHAU  surprised a logistics  support vessel  attempting  to rendezvous  with a "go - 
fast"  vessel.  The "go- fast"  vessel  and cocaine  were  seized  and the overall  operation was 
disrupted. In late June, MORGENTHAU  embarked  a  Panamanian  shiprider  and 
patrolled  inside  Panamanian  territorial waters.  This vital international  effort bolstered the 
U.S. Coast Guard's relationship  with the country of Panama  and strengthened our  
bilateral  agreement.  In early  July,  MORGENTHAU  interdicted  an Ecuadorian fishing  
vessel  smuggling 75 migrants.  The migrant  vessel  was unstable, overcrowded, and did not 
have adequate  supplies. MORGENTHAU  safely  transported all 75 migrants to 
Guatemalan  authorities  for repatriation  to Ecuador. The crew  demonstrated exceptional  
flexibility  and teamwork  by altering  their patrol schedule  to refuel USCGC  ZEPHYR.  
This delicate,  at-sea evolution  allowed  USCGC  ZEPHYR  to remain  on patrol for several  
additional days  supporting counter-drug operations. The devotion to duty and outstanding 
performance demonstrated by USCGC  MORGENTHAU  are in keeping with the highest  
traditions  of the United  States  Coast Guard."  
The Operational Distinguishing  Device  is authorized. 
For the Commandant,  
C. E. BONE  
Rear  Admiral,  U.S. Coast Guard  
Commander, Eleventh  Coast Guard  District  

--- Page 7 ---
29 Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E  
THE COMMANDANT OF THE UNITED STATES  COAST  GUARD 
WASHINGTON  20593 
The Commandant of the United  States  Coast Guard takes  pleasure in presenting the 
COAST  GUARD  MERITORIOUS TEAM  COMMENDATION  to: 
THE 2006 STATE  OF THE  COAST  GUARD  ADDRESS  PLANNING  TEAM  
for service  set forth in the following  
CITATION:  
"For exceptionally  meritorious service  from January 2006 through March  2006 in 
support of the Commandant' s 2006 State of  the Coast Guard Address and Luncheon. The 
team  meticulously  planned and executed  this annual event for over 3 50 active  duty,  
reserve,  civilian,  and retired  members  of the Coast Guard, corporate and industry  
partners, and colleagues  from the Hill. The team  members  effectively  planned and 
organized the event  from start to fmish.  Collectively,  the team  spent untold hours  
orchestrating an array  of complex  program details  that ensured the success  of this most  
visible  and important event. The team  members  worked flawlessly,  managed  hundreds of  
program requirements, expertly handled  last-minute  program changes,  promoted ticket  
sales  with a marketing  campaign,  ensured coordination of critical  security access to Bolling  
Air Force Base,  and worked tirelessly  to ensure that guests experienced  an exceptionally  
informative, memorable  and musically  entertaining afternoon. The team  ensured special  
recognition and attention  was given  to the 19th Commandant of the Coast Guard; the 
recipients  of this year's  Captain  John G. Witherspoon, Master  Chief Angela M. McShan,  
and the George R. Putnam Inspirational Leadership  Awards; and the Coast Guard Elite  
Athletes  of the Year.  As this event  marked  the 22nd Commandant' s f mal State  of the 
Coast Guard  Address and his last significant  public speaking  engagement  prior to his 
Change of  Command and retirement  in May  2006, the team  adroitly  worked special  
requests into the program. The dedication,  pride and professionalism displayed by each  
member  of the 2006 State  of the Coast Guard Address team  reflect  great credit  upon 
themselves,  their respective commands, the Washington Coast Guard  Association, and the  
United  States  Coast Guard."  
For the Commandant,  
J.  L. NIMMICH  
Rear  Admiral,  U.S. Coast Guard  
Assistant  Commandant for Policy  and Planning  


--- Page 8 ---
Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E THE COMMANDANT OF THE UNITED STATES COAST GUARD WASHINGTON 20593 
30 The Commandant  of the United  States  Coast  Guard  takes pleasure in presenting  
the COAST  GUARD  MERITORIOUS  TEAM  COMMENDATION  to: 
HALTER -CALCASIEU DRY  DOCK  RESPONSE  FORCE  
for service as set forth  in the following  
CITATION:  
"For exceptionally  meritorious  service  from  13 June  2000  to 1 2  July 2000  in response  to 
the sinking  of the 428 foot by 1 3 8  foot dry dock  operated  by Halter -Calcasieu  Shipyard,  in the 
Calcasieu  River near  Lake  Charles, Louisiana.  On  1 3 June  2000,  the Halter  dry dock  listed  
and quickly  sank  while attempting  to lift the 273-foot long,  Panama flag, chemical  tank ship 
NEWBURY.  The dry dock  submerged  completely  in the center  of the 40-foot deep  shipping  
channel  and prevented  ships  from  using  the channel  for five days.  The Response  Force  
immediately established  a  safety  zone,  initiated  vessel  traffic  control  from  Coast Guard  small  
boats,  established  an incident  command,  and coordinated  incident  response  planning.  They  set 
temporary  buoys  to guide  tows  past the site, facilitated  the movement  of crude  oil through  
lightering  of crude  oil tankers,  and ensured  the public  remained  informed  through  press  
contacts,  phone  calls,  and periodic  e -mail updates.  After  initial  efforts  by the shipyard  to re- 
float  the dry dock  failed,  the Response  Force  engaged the  Army  Corps  of Engineers  to help 
expedite  clearing  the channel.  An emergency  removal  and dredging  action  was initiated  by the 
Corps  of Engineers.  As a  consequence  of the ongoing  channel  restrictions,  the Strategic  
Petroleum  Reserve  was accessed  to supplement  the refineries  in Lake  Charles  to alleviate  a 
national  crisis over gasoline  costs.  The Corps  dredges  quickly  created  a  new 275-foot wide 
channel  along  the western  edge  of the sunken  dry dock;  however,  normal  use of the channel  by 
large  crude  carriers  and large  freighters  remained  limited  for four weeks.  During  this time,  
the Response  Force ensured  the continued  safe navigation  of lntracoastal  Waterway  traffic  and 
Liquefied  Natural  Gas tankers  around  the sunken  dry dock  through  ongoing  coordination  with 
the pilots  and marine  industry.  Boat  patrols  supplemented  numerous  radio  notices  to mariners  
in informing  nearby  vessel  traffic  of the navigation  hazards  and ensured  safety  at the site of the 
sunken  dry dock.  Eventually,  under  the guidance  of the Response  Force,  heavy  lift vessels  were  
brought  in to salvage  the dry dock.  During  the entire  evolution,  the Response  Force ensured  
optimal  flow  of marine  traffic  and minimal  disruption  to industry  operations.  The dedication,  
pride  and professionalism  displayed  by the HALTER -CALCASIEU  DRY  DOCK  RESPONSE  
FORCE  reflect  credit  on each  team  member,  their  team  and the United  States  Coast Guard."  
The Operational  Distinguishing  Device  is authorized.  
For the Commandant,  
G. W. ANDERSON  
Captain,  U.S. Coast Guard  
Commanding  Officer,  Marine  Safety  Office  Port Arthur  

--- Page 9 ---
21 Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E On behalf of the Secretary of Homeland Security,  the Commandant takes  
great pleasure  in awarding  the SILVER LIFESAVING MEDAL to  
ROBERT  EWENS  
for acts as set forth  in the following  
CITATION:  
“For heroic  action on the morning  of 23 December  2004,  when  a woman  and 
her two-year-old son were trapped  in their automobile  in the near -freezing  waters  of 
the Arkansas River  in Tulsa,  Oklahoma. On witnessing  the accident  that ended  
with the automobile in the river,  Mr. EWENS,  with complete  disregard  for his own 
safety  and the extremely  dangerous  conditions,  immediately  entered  the water  and 
swam  to the sinking  vehicle.  He instructed  the driver  to exit the vehicle  and, along 
with another  rescuer,  helped  her from  the vehicle.  Then,  despite  a severe  injury  to 
one of his hands,  he towed  her, a non-swimmer,  to the riverbank.  He then  returned  
to the vehicle,  took  the child  who had just been  pulled  from  it by the other  rescuer,  
and returned  him to another  rescuer  near  the riverbank.  Exhausted  and suffering  
extreme  hypothermia,  Mr. EWENS  was helped  from the water  and treated  on-scene  
by emergency  medical  personnel.  If not for his heroic  actions at least  two lives  
would  have been  lost. His unselfish  actions and valiant service  reflect  the highest  
credit  upon  himself  and are in keeping  with the highest traditions of humanitarian  
service.”  

--- Page 10 ---
20 Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E 
On behalf  of the Secretary  of Homeland Security,  the Commandant  takes 
great pleasure  in presenting the GOLD LIFESAVING MEDAL to  
PATRICK CYR  
for acts as set forth  in the following  
CITATION:  
“For extreme  and heroic  daring  on the morning  of 28 May 1994 when  a van 
carrying  two small  children  plunged  into the Saco  River,  Saco, Maine.  Mr. CYR  
single -handedly  rescued  a three -year-old boy and his 20-month -old sister  from  the 
submerged  van. Awakened  by the desperate  cries  of the children’s  mother,  he ran 
from  his home  to the river’s  edge  wearing  only his under  clothes.  Disregarding  his 
own safety, he immediately,  without  hesitation,  plunged  into the extremely  cold and 
fast-flowing  river.  An attempt  by another  rescuer  was thwarted  by frigid  waters  
and the potential  personal  danger.  Mr. CYR  quickly  located  the submerged  van 
despite  the six- to eight -knot  current  and brought  the three -year-old victim  to shore  
to waiting  emergency  rescue  personnel.  He then  reentered  the river,  in spite  of the 
current  and murky  water  conditions,  and relocated  the van after  several  more dive 
attempts.  He successfully  removed  the remaining  victim,  still strapped  in her child  
safety  seat,  from the vehicle  and delivered  her to waiting  emergency  rescue  
personnel.  Mr. CYR’s  determined  efforts,  outstanding  initiative,  and personal 
fortitude  during  the rescue  resulted  in the saving  of two lives.  His unselfish  actions  
and valiant  services,  despite  imminent  personal  danger,  reflect  great  credit  upon  
himself and are in keeping  with the highest traditions  of humanitarian service.  

--- Page 11 ---
Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E On behalf of the Secretary of Homeland Security,  the Commandant takes  
great pleasure  in presenting the GOLD LIFESAVING MEDAL to  
CHIEF WARRANT  OFFICER  JAMES  D. METZA  
UNITED STATES COAST GUARD  
for acts as set forth  in the following  
CITATION:  
“For extreme  and heroic  daring  on the afternoon of 27 February  2005, when 
Chief  Warrant Officer  METZA  rescued  his brother  from  the freezing  waters  of the 
Chippewa  River.  Chief  Warrant  Officer  METZA  was off- duty  and with his 
brother,  David  Metza,  on a snowmobile  ride from Chippewa  Falls,  Wisconsin,  
heading  north  to Cornell,  Wisconsin.  While  crossing  a frozen  river,  David’s 
snowmobile  broke  though  the ice into the frigid  waters.  He first attempted  to rescue  
his brother  by lying  down  on the ice and having  David swim  to him.  Unfortunately,  
David was 75 yards away  and unable  to close  the distance.  Unable  to safely  and 
directly  reach  his brother,  he tried  to go down  river  on his snowmobile  and come up 
from the other  side.  During  the maneuvering  he also broke  through  the ice into the 
freezing  river.  Now  in a life or death  struggle  himself,  he called  upon  his Rescue  
Survival Training  to overcome  conditions  that would  incapacitate most  individuals.  
After  30 grueling  minutes,  he managed  to crawl  back  onto  the ice losing  his boots in 
the process.  Unrelentingly,  he returned  to rescuing  his stranded  brother,  regardless  
of the life threatening  danger  they now both  faced.  During  this renewed  effort,  he 
broke through  the ice and freed  himself  several  more times,  all the while  never  
succumbing  to unimaginable  physical  and mental  trauma.  Finally  reaching  his 
brother,  he found  himself  unable  to extract  David  from the water.  Despite  suffering  
from shock,  exposure  and hypothermia,  he made  his way through  the woods  to a 
nearby  house  to call for help.  After  asking  the homeowner  to call 9-1-1, he returned  
to the river.  During  subsequent  attempts,  battling  excruciating  pain,  disabling  cold,  
exhaustion, extreme  exposure  and hypothermia,  he was miraculously  able to pull his 
brother  out of the freezing  water  to safety. Chief  Warrant  Officer  METZA  and his 
brother were  both taken  to the hospital  and treated for extreme exposure  and severe  
hypothermia.  His unselfish  actions and valiant  service,  despite  imminent  personal  
danger,  reflect  great  credit  upon  himself  and are in the keeping  with the highest  
traditions  of humanitarian  service.”  
19 

--- Page 12 ---
18     Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E 
THE COMMANDANT  OF THE UNITED STATES  COAST  GUARD 
WASHINGTON  20593 
30 June 2006  
From:  Commandant  
To:      ETl Chad E. Tate,  USCG  
Subj: LETTER  OF COMMENDATION  
1.I note with pride and am pleased  to commend  you for your performance of duty while
serving at U.S. Coast Guard Long Range Aids  to Navigation  Station  St. Paul Island,  
Alaska,  from June 2005 to June 2006. During this period, you superbly served  as the 
Electronics  Shop Supervisor and were  solely  responsible for ensuring that five new 
technicians  were  properly trained  in caring  for the station's  labor intensive  A/N-FPN  44B  
Transmitter  set, and associated  Timing  and Control Equipment. As a further testament  of 
your dedication, you expended over 1 00 hours of your personal time organizing  
qualification  material,  ensuring that an entire  shop of new technicians  could systematically  
learn  the tasks  associated  with record keeping, procurement and watch  standing. In doing  
this, you made  improvements to the Station's  qualification  guide, the Bravo Control  
worksheet and also System  Sample  worksheets; thereby decreasing  the qualification  time 
from over six weeks  to less than four (a 30 percent  decrease).  Displaying expertise and 
foresight after Long Range Aids  to Navigation  Station  Narrows Cape' s new transmitter  
upgrade, you identified  a possible communications  problem and provided solutions,  
preventing a severe  loss of both communications and equipment monitor while  in Bravo  
Control. As a steward  to other agencies,  you closely  coordinated with a  National  Oceanic  
and Atmospheric Administration  technician  in testing  their remote transmitting  site, 
saving National  Oceanic  and Atmospheric Administration  nearly  $1,500 in airfare and 
manpower. Additionally, you have been  the Station's  Automated  Information System  
Representative,  Configuration Management  Plus manager, Training Management  Tool  
manager,  local  telephone technician,  local  locksmith,  and the unit's  morale  internet  
equipment expert.  
2.You are commended  for your outstanding performance of duty. By your meritorious
service  you ha ve upheld the highest traditions  of the United  States  Coast Guard.  
3.You are hereby  authorized to wear  the Commandant's Letter  of Commendation
Ribbon Bar (silver  star in lieu of a sixth).  
For the Commandant,  
A. E. BROOKS  
Rear  Admiral,  U.S. Coast  Guard  
Commander, Seventeenth Coast Guard District  


--- Page 13 ---
Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST  M1650.25E 
THE COMMANDANT OF THE UNITED STATES  COAST  GUARD 
WASHINGTON  20593 
30 March  2007  
From: Commandant  
To:     GMl  Michael  C. Day,  USCG  
Subj:    LETTER  OF COMMENDATION  
1.I note with pride and am pleased  to commend you for your performance of duty while
assigned  to Coast  Guard  Pacific  Area  Armory, Alameda,  California,  from  July  2005 to 
March  2007. During your tenure  as "Weapons  Petty  Officer"  for  the  Eleventh  Coast  
Guard  District,  you demonstrated exceptional abilities,  accomplishing many  complex tasks  
through diligence, foresight and sound judgment.  During  your  assignment,  you 
significantly  contributed through the issuance  and receipt  of 2,013  weapons, and the repair  
and replacement  of 506 service  weapons, allowing  operational units  to maintain  readiness  
and meet  armed  mission  requirements.  Your devotion to duty at the Area  Armory  was 
evident in your work  ethic,  as you averaged  65 hour work  weeks  that included most  
weekends. You  superbly carried  out your responsibilities  and established  procedures  to 
exchange 833, 9mm  Beretta  pistols  over to the new .40 caliber  Sig Sauer  P229DAK pistols.  
Your sharp  attention  to detail  was invaluable  in  keeping  all  administrative  transfer  
document discrepancies  to a  minimum  during these  weapons exchanges. With  your superb  
knowledge of the new Sig Sauer  P229DAK pistol, you volunteered to assist  other ordnance  
personnel from  Sectors  San Diego  and San Francisco,  and Group Humboldt Bay in the  
qualification  process for  this new weapon. While  fuliilling  all assigned  duties and  
responsibilities,  you displayed exceptional stamina,  abilities  and initiatives.  Your high level  
of morale  was worthy of emulation and contributed  significantly  to the success  of  the 
Armory' s mission. Finally,  your devotion to duty and superior  knowledge  of the  many  
facets  of the small  arms  field not only resulted  in the development of high standards  for 
weapons readiness  but inspired all those with whom  you work. 
2. · You are commended for your outstanding performance  of duty. By your meritorious  
service  you have upheld the highest traditions  of the United  States  Coast  Guard. 
3. You are hereby  authorized  to wear  the Commandant'  s Letter  of Commendation
Ribbon Bar (gold  star in lieu of a second).  
For the Commandant,  
C. E. BONE  
Rear  Admiral,  U.S. Coast Guard  
Commander, Eleventh  Coast Guard  District  
17 


--- Page 14 ---
22 Enclosure (24) to COMDTINST M1650.25E On behalf  of the Secretary  of Homeland Security,  the Commandant  takes 
great pleasure  in presenting the SILVER  LIFESAVING MEDAL to  
HONORABLE  DONALD  M. GOODWILLIE,  JR. 
Judge of the Seventh District Court 
South Haven, Michigan  
for acts as set forth  in the following  
CITATION:  
“For heroic  action on  the afternoon of 3 September  1979  in the rescue  of four 
youths  from  drowning  in Lake  Michigan at South  Haven,  Michigan.  The youths  
had   been   body -surfing   when    the   current   moved    them   in   front    of 
Judge GOODWILLIE’s  residence  where  a  10-foot seawall  prevented  the youths  
from getting  to shore  without  being  dashed  against it by large breakers.  Proceeding  
to the seawall,  he assisted  one of the boys who had gotten close  to the seawall  to 
safety. When  other  rescuers  arrived, he donned  a lifejacket  with a lifeline,  entered  
the pounding  surf,  and swam  to the remaining  three  youths.  Taking  one of the boys 
in tow, he swam  back  to the seawall  and positioned  himself  between  the wall and the 
boy as other rescuers  pulled  him to safety.  When  another rescuer  attempted  to 
reach  the remaining  youths  and failed,  Judge  GOODWILLIE  again  entered  the 
surf.  Reaching  the youths,  he instructed  them  to hold  onto him as he was pulled  
back  to the seawall.  The two boys  were  then pulled  to safety  and he pulled  himself  
out of the surf.  Judge  GOODWILLIE’s  determined  efforts,  outstanding  initiative  
and fortitude  during  this rescue  resulted  in the saving of the youths’  lives.  His 
unselfish  actions  and valiant service  reflect  great credit  upon  himself  and are in 
keeping with the highest  traditions of humanitarian service.”  